h1. Plugrepo

h2. About

Plugrepo is an offline Grails (and maybe Griffon) plugin repository. It can be used as an offline proxy for the grails.org repository as well as a repository for internal plugins, which are not ment to be published.

Plugrepo is licensed under the "Apache License 2.0":http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

h2. Features

* plugins can be uploaded to internal repository
* manual installation of plugins from the upstream repository
* browsing of plugins from internal and upstream repositories
* automatic update of plugin meta data from upstream plugin repositories (e.g. central repository at grails.org)

h2. Installation

Currently Plugrepo must be downloaded from GitHub and built using @grails war@. Afterwards, the resulting war
 file can be installed in any servlet container, e.g. Apache Tomcat.

h2. Usage

After installation plugrepo can be used instantly. Simply open the start page (e.g. http://localhost:8080/plugrepo)
and follow the instructions for configuring your Grails application.

Plugins can be browsed, and installed from upstream repositories. Currently only the official grails.org repository
is pre-configured. User-defined repositories will come later.

h2. Internals

Plugrepo defines several different types of repositories: 

* internal repository, where Plugrepo stores uploaded plugins and plugins installed from remote repositores.
* Subversion-based repository, such as the offical repository at grails.org (or rather svn.grails.codehaus.org)
* URL-based repository, which is similar to the Subversion-based repo, but it points directly to a meta-data XML file.

h2. Work in progress

For the first release, a couple of things still need to be done:

* tests!
* manual installation of plugins from the upstream repository
* automatic, transparent installation of plugins from the parent repository, 
  when using @grails install-plugin@ (proxy mode)


h2. Roadmap

* User-defined repositories and repository management
* blacklisting of plugins and plugin versions
* check whether plugrepo can be used for Griffon
* multiple internal and external (upstream) plugin repositories
* security (allow download/upload/installation only for authenticated users, etc.)
* download and usage statistics
* Grails script for plugin upload similar to @grails release-plugin@